README.md, before:

# comp150-desktop-game
A desktop game made collaboratively using C++ and SDL.

##Doomed Patient of WW2

##Target market
This game is aimed at people that enjoy roguelites as well as people that enjoy darkly themed, yet non-traditional, horror games that elicit feelings of tension.
It is aimed at people that enjoy a challenge, and don't feel put off by losing a few times. 
Aimed at masochistic gamers!

##Aesthetic
This game intends to create feelings of tension and fear of the unknown.
####Mechanics that help create this aesthetic
* The player is pursued by the monster if they spend too long in a level, meaning that that the player feels pressured to make quick decisions and not loiter around being indecisive
* The player has limited view, so must decide which direction to travel without knowing exactly what lies ahead
* Levels are randomly generated, which means that the player doesn't know what to expect each time they play
* The game's dark theme of being trapped in a Nazi hospital also adds feelings of horror and fear

##Trello Board
####Label Colour Key
![Labels](https://github.com/NecroReindeer/comp150-desktop-game/blob/master/Trello/Labels.png)

####Trello Board After Final Sprint
![Trello](https://github.com/NecroReindeer/comp150-desktop-game/blob/master/Trello/Trello%20Sprints.png)

## Sprint Reports

###Sprint 1
There were some struggles at the beginning of the project due to a differing level of experience between team members. In order to overcome this, we did a lot of pair programming in this sprint. 
James and Harriet used pair programming in order to create classes for the NPCs and make them appear in the game. This proved effective, as we managed to complete all of the user stories on our to-do list.

In future, it will be useful to use pair programming if team members are struggling to implement a particular element, as it allows the problem to be overcome through discussion, learning, and picking up on each other’s mistakes.

###Sprint 2
There was less communication and pair programming during the second sprint. This had a negative effect on the outcome of sprint, as we still had a lot of user stories left incomplete.
Harriet continued working on the level generator whilst James attempted to implement movement for the NPCs. 
After struggling for a while, James asked the tutor and other team members for help. Asking for help allowed James to get the NPCs to move in a straight line.

In order to avoid time being wasted by being stumped by a difficult problem, asking team members and tutors for help sooner rather than later will mean that it has a lesser impact on the progress of the project. Participating in daily stand-up meetings would help address this issue, as team members would raise any issues they are having during that.

###Sprint 3
We didn’t achieve many of the user stories during this sprint, due to a lack of communication over the Easter holidays, until the week of the sprint review.
Harriet continued working on the level generation and split the level into rooms and corridors, whilst James worked on beginning to implement the behaviour for the NPCs’ movement.

It is important that the team maintains regular communication in future in order to 


###Sprint 4
Milly worked on implementing collision detection during this sprint. After struggling to implement it, he asked the tutors and other team members for help. This allowed a solution to the problem to be found, so now the player cannot travel through walls, and restarts when colliding with an NPC

Commit message:

Added some last minute comments.

README.md, after:

# comp150-desktop-game
A desktop game made collaboratively using C++ and SDL.

##Doomed Patient of WW2

##Target market
This game is aimed at people that enjoy roguelites as well as people that enjoy darkly themed, yet non-traditional, horror games that elicit feelings of tension.
It is aimed at people that enjoy a challenge, and don't feel put off by losing a few times. 
Aimed at masochistic gamers!

##Aesthetic
This game intends to create feelings of tension and fear of the unknown.
####Mechanics that help create this aesthetic
* The player is pursued by the monster if they spend too long in a level, meaning that that the player feels pressured to make quick decisions and not loiter around being indecisive
* The player has limited view, so must decide which direction to travel without knowing exactly what lies ahead
* Levels are randomly generated, which means that the player doesn't know what to expect each time they play
* The game's dark theme of being trapped in a Nazi hospital also adds feelings of horror and fear

##Trello Board
####Label Colour Key
![Labels](https://github.com/NecroReindeer/comp150-desktop-game/blob/master/Trello/Labels.png)

####Trello Board After Final Sprint
![Trello](https://github.com/NecroReindeer/comp150-desktop-game/blob/master/Trello/Trello%20Sprints.png)

## Sprint Reports

###Sprint 1
There were some struggles at the beginning of the project due to a differing level of experience between team members. In order to overcome this, we did a lot of pair programming in this sprint. 
James and Harriet used pair programming in order to create classes for the NPCs and make them appear in the game. This proved effective, as we managed to complete all of the user stories on our to-do list.

In future, it will be useful to use pair programming if team members are struggling to implement a particular element, as it allows the problem to be overcome through discussion, learning, and picking up on each other’s mistakes.

###Sprint 2
There was less communication and pair programming during the second sprint. This had a negative effect on the outcome of sprint, as we still had a lot of user stories left incomplete.
Harriet continued working on the level generator whilst James attempted to implement movement for the NPCs. 
After struggling for a while, James asked the tutor and other team members for help. Asking for help allowed James to get the NPCs to move in a straight line.

In order to avoid time being wasted by being stumped by a difficult problem, asking team members and tutors for help sooner rather than later will mean that it has a lesser impact on the progress of the project. Participating in daily stand-up meetings would help address this issue, as team members would raise any issues they are having during that.

###Sprint 3
We didn’t achieve many of the user stories during this sprint, due to a lack of communication over the Easter holidays, until the week of the sprint review.
Harriet continued working on the level generation and split the level into rooms and corridors, whilst James worked on beginning to implement the behaviour for the NPCs’ movement.

It is important that the team maintains regular communication in future, in order to maintain an efficient workflow. We will be working on this issue for the last few weeks of work.


###Sprint 4
Milly worked on implementing collision detection during this sprint. After struggling to implement it, he asked the tutors and other team members for help. This allowed a solution to the problem to be found, so now the player cannot travel through walls, and restarts when colliding with an NPC.

After some refactoring and tidying up of the codebase, we believe that the game is ready for submitting. Though it has not got everything we had hoped to implement, we have learnt a great deal about what we can do and our limitations. Scoping was an issue for us, in the future we may want to pull back on the quantity of content we wish to implement.
